Welcome back. To train
a neural network,
you need to compute gradients.
You've done it by hand earlier
in this specialization,
and you've seen that it
can be quite complex.
But you know what?
You don't have to
necessarily do it by yourself.
Deep learning
frameworks can do it
for you. Let's dive in.
I will show you how
the trax grad function
allows you to easily
compute gradients,
which will allow you to perform
back-propagation and
train your model.
You will see how easy it is
compared to back
propagating by hand.
Computing ingredients using
Trax is pretty straightforward.
Suppose that you have
the following equation,
f of x, whose gradient
with respect to x is
equal to this derivative.
To get that derivative in Trax,
define the function
f that takes in x,
and then just call
the grad function
with f as its single parameter.
The function grad will
return a function
that computes the gradient
of f. That's nice.
Using the grad function to train
a model is similarly painless.
Suppose that you have a
neural network model y.
To get the gradient
of your model,
just apply the grad function with
the forward method of your
model as a single parameter.
Then evaluate the gradient
with your weights and inputs.
Notice the double
sets of parentheses.
The first one passes the
arguments for the grad function,
and the second one,
the arguments for the
function returned by grad.
After you have the
gradients for your model,
just iterate until
convergence is reached.
That's it, forward
and back-propagation
performed in a single line.
This final block is
gradient descent.
You can always change
the optimization
algorithm if necessary.
So let's summarize.
Having a defined model in Trax,
make training
significantly easier than
computing forward and
back-propagation by
hand because the
built-in grad function
automatically computes
everything you need.
In the programming
assignments from this module,
you'll be able to define and
train a neural
network using Trax.
Good luck, and have fun.
This was the last
video of the week.
You now know how to
create neural networks
with layers and
how to train them.
Next, you will learn
even more complex layers
and built networks
that perform better.
Younes will show you how.